feat: template deploys blog post (#83)
hamlet-io/docs: blog/2021-01-13-template-deploys.md

I recently worked on a product which was used for tracking people and the projects they are working on. The product is based on AWS and uses a number of native services including

- **[AWS Athena](https://aws.amazon.com/athena/)** for querying a collection of records stored in S3 which track the time different areas of the company work on projects. To provide effective results in Athena AWS recommends that you provide a data schema which it can use to map out data types and ensure that your data matches what you expect
- **[AWS Glue](https://aws.amazon.com/glue/)** which is a managed ETL ( extract, transform, load ) service that includes a data catalogue. Athena can use these Glue catalogs to build out the data structure of your S3 bucket and provide us with a SQL like interface over S3 using the schema in the Glue Catalog

The overall process is something like this

<Mermaid chart={`
    graph LR;
    quicksight[Reporting Client]
    athena[Athena]
    s3[S3 Bucket]
    dataCatalog[Glue Data Catalog]
    quicksight-->|runs SQL query|athena
    athena-->|collects data schema|dataCatalog
    athena-->|runs query against data|s3
`}/>

> During the development of this reporting process once of the developers in the team had created a cloudformation template that they used to create the catalog. As someone looking after Cloud Deployments for the team this was great, I could see what they had already discovered, review the template and see what is required to get this going in Production. Working in hamlet we like to make a library of reusable components which capture the gotchas, recommendations and workarounds required to deploy a set of resources.

Reviewer: typo: During the development of this reporting process **once** of the developers

                ]
            SerdeInfo:
                SerializationLibrary: org.openx.data.jsonserde.JsonSerDe
...
```

On the first look at the table one thing stands out, there are specific configuration parameters which describe the product listed in the columns. So these values aren't really something we could make generic, we could add support in our component to create each of the columns but that would embed some of the product specific configuration into our infrastructure. During development these are likely to change quite often and be different across changes made to the product.

Our Hamlet infrastructure usually provides the base level platform where we deploy code artefacts which are executed by the platform. This doesn't quite fit that model. So instead of turning this template into a generic component what if we could treat this template as a code artefact, this way changes are promoted through environments and during the promotion process we re-apply the template with the latest updates.

This is where the template component comes in. The template component has some useful features to integrate your template resources with the rest of your hamlet deployment:

> - The template is provided to hamlet through our zip file s3 registry, you nominate a root template file which hamlet calls from inside of a nested Cloudformation Template. This means you can provide your whole library of templates as a single image and then use instances to select the appropriate template to deploy

Reviewer: Cloudformation is inconsistently capitalised

> - You can provide template parameter values through solution level configuration and extensions. This means you can generate dynamic parameter values using, links, environment details and anything else available in hamlet. Depending on what's in your template, hamlet can look after creating multiple instances of your template including deploying the same template into your account multiple times

Reviewer: strange place for a comma (after using): This means you can generate dynamic parameter values using, links, environment details...

- We capture the outputs provided by your template and include them as part of the state of the template component. This means other components in your solution can access details about the resources in your template allowing you to still use our standardised best practice components alongside your template

## Deploying through Hamlet

Lets see what this looks like in hamlet:

> 

Reviewer: at this point it might be worth pointing reader to background material that they should (maybe) be across before continuing. like the opposite of "you can skip this step"... "if you haven't used hamlet before, it might be helpful to read..."

1. Lets create a hamlet to test this out

    :::info
    You can skip this step if you already have a hamlet up and running
    :::

    :::caution
    This hamlet will only be available in the docker container. If you would like to keep it please attach a volume
    :::

    ```bash
    ## Using the hamlet docker image provides all the tools you'll need

>     docker run -it hamletio/hamlet

Reviewer: I get this when trying to run that command:
```
/bin/sh: 1: [: /bin/bash: unexpected operator
```

Reviewer: works now after pulling new image...

Author: Cheers, I had fixed it up last night and was just about to ask you to test again

- **[AWS Glue](https://aws.amazon.com/glue/)** which is a managed ETL ( extract, transform, load ) service that includes a data catalogue. Athena can use these Glue catalogs to build out the data structure of your S3 bucket and provide us with a SQL like interface over S3 using the schema in the Glue Catalog

The overall process is something like this

<Mermaid chart={`
    graph LR;
    quicksight[Reporting Client]
    athena[Athena]
    s3[S3 Bucket]
    dataCatalog[Glue Data Catalog]
    quicksight-->|runs SQL query|athena
    athena-->|collects data schema|dataCatalog
    athena-->|runs query against data|s3
`}/>

During the development of this reporting process one of the developers in the team created a CloudFormation template which deployed the data catalog. As someone looking after Cloud Deployments for the team this was great, I could see what they had already discovered, review the template and see what is required to get this going in production.

> Working in hamlet we like to make a library of reusable components which capture the gotchas, recommendations and workarounds required to deploy a set of resources. So let's have a look at [template](https://github.com/hamlet-io/docs-support/blob/v1.0.0/glue_cfn/glue.yml) and see what would be required to make this into a component.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Working in hamlet we like to make a library of reusable components which capture the gotchas, recommendations and workarounds required to deploy a set of resources. So let's have a look at the [template](https://github.com/hamlet-io/docs-support/blob/v1.0.0/glue_cfn/glue.yml) and see what would be required to make this into a component.
```

                Type: string
                - Name: task_assignees
                Type: array<string>
                - Name: task_milestone
                Type: string
                - Name: task_created_by
                Type: string
                - Name: task_tags
                Type: array<string>
                - Name: task_title
                Type: string
                - Name: task_closed_at
                Type: date
                - Name: task_created_at
                Type: date
                - Name: project_code
                Type: string
                - Name: provider_name
                Type: string
                - Name: provider_alias
                Type: string
            InputFormat: org.apache.hadoop.mapred.TextInputFormat
            Location:
                !Join [
                '/',
                [
                    's3:/',
                    !Ref 'DataBucketName',
                    !Ref 'DataBucketRootPrefix',
                    'task/github/v2/processed/data'
                ]
                ]
            SerdeInfo:
                SerializationLibrary: org.openx.data.jsonserde.JsonSerDe
...
```

> On the first look at the table one thing stands out, there are specific configuration parameters which describe the product listed in the columns. So these values aren't really something we could make generic, we could add support in our component to create each of the columns but that would embed some of the product specific configuration into our infrastructure. During development these are likely to change quite often and be different across changes made to the product.

Reviewer 2: I found it a little challenging to understand the criteria here for why something could or could not be made generic. I've had an attempt at a re-word that would illustrate the differences. Note that I left the last sentence out only because I wasn't sure at all what is meant by "and be different across changes made to the product."

```suggestion
One thing that stands out on initial review is that the resource exposes a number of parameters that determine the type of content the table will hold. This configuration cannot be made generic because it is fundamental to the way the resource behaves. We could add support for different values within the component itself, but this would mean embedding product-specific configuration logic inside of our infrastructure.
```

Author: Thanks much nicer
